wow
oh so you put on the
i was thinking wow when i saw this like
that must be really hard to transport
you don't need to adjust the tension of
the strings really to tune it you just
move these to tune it
[Music]
already it's so beautiful i guess it
makes sense with these that you would
have to tune it every time like i
shouldn't again because these were just
i mean slide away so you just set the
tension once
yes
it sounds so
is an acclaimed musician she comes from
the hiro family of the ikuta
koto school in japan so we have an
absolute kodo master with us yeah
hey everybody welcome back to the
channel we're here with an absolute kodo
master today toki as well as our
translator keiko and we're going to
learn about the koto what is this
it's a japanese traditional
instrument
and this is all hollow
yeah
and then like how many strings do we
have one two three four
13 13 13. and so is this tuned i guess
you can tune it however you want height
yes and what do you normally tune it to
when she listens to the song
and then she listens to the main sound
from that music she hears
then she
uh choose the closest
uh tuning out of that sound so there's
not a like a standard tuning of it it's
always changing
there's many standards tunics yes
traditionally yeah so she has a
traditional standard tuning yeah yeah
this is a traditional sanitary kitchen
it's instantly recognizable what gives
it that unique sound that i instantly
recognize the shape of the body or the
string like what type of strings are
these they're very different
it's just a different material like it's
not it's not nylon
[Laughter]
are all the gauges the same too these
are all the same things yes
[Music]
that's like
the thing i recognize most about that is
the ability to do vibrato on this side
of the string
this side of the screen you can do it
right okay
yeah so you don't play this side at all
every string is the same gauge same
tension and then it's all just about
scale length that changes it that's what
like really unique thing about this i
don't think i've seen any other stringed
instrument that does it that way other
than like the shovel which only has one
string so it doesn't have different
several
should play the traditional japanese
song yeah sakura cherry blossom
[Music]
it's interesting too that you have like
one hand is almost dedicated to vibrato
oh sorry labrado yeah like
vibrato kind of thing
and it seems like that's a big part of
the sound to use the vibrato to change
notes like off a half step
or to use it just for vibrato
yeah yeah yeah yeah
see that's that way
okay so you can bring it up a bunch
let's talk about the the picks you're
using on your
plectrums
even though you're left-handed
it has to play with the right hand do
you always play with three yes yeah
three so thumb
index
and then middle finger do you use all of
your fingers
yeah
and is it is the reason to go from say
the middle finger to the ring to get a
different sound hi so she wants to play
that soft sound she use this finger
so you're often using both hands
what are the picks called the plectrum
name direct translations now now nails
oh okay yeah just like nail extensions
when was this instrument invented
so 1300 years ago
it came from china china a really long
time ago
i just want to hear played more do you
have any other pieces here
[Music]
do you always tune by ear
perfect
she
[Music]
guess having perfect pitch really speeds
this up
[Music]
so
foreign
[Music]
do
this instrument is so beautiful
i don't know i just love that it almost
sounded like it was just written for me
that's exactly right
[Music]
so what's what scale is it because i
heard a high
i heard that high g
d major d major
d
i do not have perfect pitch d major
[Music]
all right yeah that actually sounds
really nice together
a lot of strings to make that happen
[Music]
dang yeah this is just so beautiful
so
[Music]
this is for my thumb
or maybe this on this side
just so
[Laughter]
[Music]
wow these strings
it's like playing a huge acoustic guitar
i have experience you know finger
picking on on that
but but this is like
[Music]
wow it's really hard and do you normally
use um like these
more like that or is that me being a
guitar player
oh so you're like you're like this yeah
these two no she doesn't use these two
oh no okay
oh because i'm looking to like he's on
acoustic guitar
i play it like this
why is this one shaped differently
for example
yeah
and so
still tight
yeah so that's more to control the
tension when you go low
yeah and over here it's still the same
about the same height
i'm still playing it like a guitar
player you know and i kind of want to go
like this
triangle
[Music]
it's like a caterpillar
could we put it in the tuning that you
had when you first started the first
tuning
[Music]
amazing
i love one inch
that wasn't
i love when instruments are tuned to a
scale because then just every note works
i'm also a big fan of just taking a
chord you know and then just moving it
one over in the scale and it's like a
lot easier to do on this one on an
instrument like this
[Music]
[Laughter]
i don't have much experience with like
guitar picks that go on your fingers but
when they do they're always on the
opposite side
[Music]
okay so this goes on the bridge and then
that oh just and does your ring finger
stay on the bridge okay
[Music]
oh
there
[Music]
oh like that
that's really tough to do
[Music]
because this side being having that
different curve is a bit
[Music]
you're you're doing a scoop kind of yeah
yeah
it's like slap days
yes
[Music]
i imagine you don't really do that um
oh that's cool
[Music]
so this one japanese kanji kanji kanji
chinese character yeah and so this is
one string one two three four five
shakes
like a japanese music sheet
yeah this is a traditional reading so it
starts from the right from the right to
the left and vertically down
so
this stress list one measure two
measures image of
formation one two three four one two
three four
[Music]
how's your japanese sight reading
wrapped not good
my english
my english sight reading is horrible
[Music]
[Laughter]
i learned guitar too through guitar tab
which is just a bunch of numbers so
shouting numbers at me is a lot easier
for me than this
[Music]
okay it is weird because with so many
years of this being higher notes lower
notes my instinct is to always do the
opposite like if i want to hear a higher
note i go here
it's really cool to be able to add
expressions to the notes on this side
[Music]
i also love the sound of clashing notes
ringing out
like having that half step have them
both ring out
is a sound that i really love
so now we're in g major
whenever i have a new instrument
recently i just try to play this song
it's tough to get a just looking down at
the strings to get a good sense of where
i am how many students yeah there are
many many strings yeah yeah is 13 um
standard yeah
yeah base quarter is a 17th 17th cheese
then that would be probably two octaves
on the face
yeah traditionally
26th string in traditional yeah
i know i can get thirds this way
[Music]
do you want to strum uh g on the guitar
and try to jam gg
[Music]
[Applause]
[Laughter]
nice well done
all right
[Music]
yeah
well done
i think i'm gonna keep these
now this just feels like a really small
koto
[Laughter]
[Music]
that's cool
dang this thing it's just so pretty toki
keiko thank you so much for being here
thank you oh i have my youtube channel
oh you do okay there's a youtube channel
too also here's my channel i'm sure this
isn't the last time you do something
like this uh thanks again so much for
being here and we'll see you next week
[Music]